# Response to Stephen Ramsay

Ramsay discusses a very computational approach to text analysis in the chapter ‘An Algorithmic Criticism’. He attempts to draw multiple interpretations from a text, in this case The Waves by Virginia Woolf, by approaching the text’s frequency of words with an algorithm to list the most frequently used words in reverse. The text involves multiple characters perspectives which form together to produce the narrative for the storyline much like a play. 
Understanding this text using a scientific method would be a near impossible task because the truth it holds is not in a singular form but in multiple perspectives which vary based on the reader and what they bring to the text. When viewing a visual or literary work our attention goes to the specific things that stand out to us based on our cultural and intellectual background. In a text like the one Ramsay is focused on, your personal beliefs and experience influence the narrative heavily, analysing the text requires the use of multiple perspectives to draw out all of the underlying narratives.
In an example given by Ramsay we see a list of words least frequently used by each individual character, this is one of the many ways we can view the text. Viewing the text through each individual character and their influence on the story can only get us to one of the many underlying narratives. Ramsay goes on to give another example this time instead of viewing the list of words by character, he divides them by gender. This brings about another interpretation of the text, showing yet another underlying narrative. Through various manipulations Ramsay is able to show the many arguments that can be made about the text being analyzed. When approaching the text algorithmically, Ramsay attempts not to find a universal truth but a plethora of interpretations, with which the text can be interpreted in a more wholistic form. Ramsey’s argument is not that the algorithmic approach outlined in ‘An Algorithmic Criticism’ is the best way to analyse a text; it is that the drastically different interpretations it allows you to make are the best way to analyse a text. Ramsey concludes algorithmic criticism needs to shift from focusing on methods and boundaries of interpretation to the quality of discourse a procedure invokes.
Analyzing multiple perspectives to have a more comprehensive understanding of the text is discussed in Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display by Johanna Drucker. Drucker analyzes the analytical tools used in the digital humanities, that have been designed to display statistical data and do not work for social data. Drucker discusses the interpretive nature of facts, “Humanistic inquiry acknowledges the situated, partial, and constitutive character of knowledge production, the recognition that knowledge is constructed, taken, not simply given as a natural representation of pre-existing fact.” (Drucker, 2011) the viewer develops their own interpretation of the graphs based on graphs modified to display qualitative data. 
Drucker shows an example of how to display complex social data in a bar graph by, comparing a normal bar graph that shows a quantitative data set that simplifies the complicated social data against a modified bar graph that shows a more comprehensive amount of qualitative data. This modification of data allows the viewer of the data to interpret the information using their cultural intelligence, as opposed to the more confined interpretations possible from the original data. The qualitative data allows for varying perspectives to be derived, by displaying the social variance. Instead of using the scientific method to find a truth, in the case of Drucker the original graphs; the humanistic method looks for sound arguments, as shown by Drucker’s modified graphs. 
This analysis of Grimms’ Fairy Tales by The Brothers Grimm, shows how a different interpretation of a text is made by modifying the text. To understand the book as a whole we need to view the different perspectives we can see. First, lets view the topics by each fairy tale.
<iframe style='width: 637px; height: 532px;' src='//voyant-tools.org/tool/Topics/?corpus=bb8eef0f4f4c167f3371fdd940660755'></iframe>
When you view the above visual, there are certain words that stick out to you because they mean something to you. Keeping this initial interpretation in mind, view the same text as a whole.
<iframe style='width: 637px; height: 514px;' src='//voyant-tools.org/tool/Summary/?limit=25&corpus=bb8eef0f4f4c167f3371fdd940660755'></iframe>Viewing the entire book allows us to see an entirely different interpretation. These points are discussed in Visual Text Analysis in Digital Humanities, the differences between close and distant reading techniques let narratives that would possibly go unnoticed to an individual stand out. “For the analysis of topics, Alexander propose two matrix representations. The RankViewer illustrates the ranking of words belonging to topics and the CorpusViewer shows relations to certain topics for each document of a corpus” (Cheema, Franzini, Jänicke, Scheuermann, 2016) the two representations above are two matrix representations, the first illustrates the topics from the short stories, while the second graph gives a complete over view. In this case, the initial representation allows us to understand the narrative. This is similar to how one would perceive the text by reading through it. The second representation however gives us a much less perceived view on these fairy tales. By viewing these fairy tales as a collection we discover the parallels present through out the text.
All of these methods of analysis have a common goal of interpreting familiar text in a different perspective, allowing an individual to interpret the same text in a variety of ways. 

###Works Cited:
###Jänicke, S., Franzini, G., Cheema, M. F., & Scheuermann, G. (2016). Visual Text Analysis in Digital Humanities. Computer Graphics ###Forum,36(6), 226-250.
###Drucker, J. (2015). Graphical Approaches to the Digital Humanities. Digital Humanities Quarterly, 5(1), 238-250.
###Ramsay, S. (2011). Reading machines. Urbana, Chicago, and Springfield: University of Illinois Press, pp.1-17.
